we're talking so far
figures are elder and he is going to
open for us this evening I want to
recognize the land that we walk on
mostly recently under the care of the
Mississauga and also the thicker on
window kishori third ave all the other
tribes of the walk in this class is the
last big ice balls
we've been walking this last a long time
we've been sharing for long
inviting people
and we've been helping one of them for a
long time one of the things we always
did with people's extended a hat offered
a blanket place by the fire some food
all those things are here companionship
that friendship but mentorship all those
things that helped everybody move
forward
that wasn't our way it wasn't
we come together like this week airtime
recognize me they are what they are
probably want not respect that we have
to go constantly the footprints
anybody's I hope you all like to be a
cat video there's that wonderful little
story will leaving footprints that my
son and mine yeah well that each and
every one of us does that whether or not
we know we're doing when we take this
time to come together when we take this
time to share and acknowledged by your
great you're wonderful have you've done
something mentor if you've let of course
you two are very thing so this is a
special spot and then we're up so high
right now I couldn't help but pick up an
eagle feather and think wow I'm a little
closer to that you go I think there's
another bank that has a better view but
so I want to give thanks for that I want
to give thanks for the part of what's
going to walk on want to give thanks to
the food that we received it
I want to give thanks for this idea that
we can change
we are are not so much change just carry
on we have adopted a lot of it
technology since the first newcomer
rolled out a bowling ball or showed us a
match those little things that were so
important we have picked those things up
and use as a people we change we are
still hunters almost everyone in this
room still hungry what goes in our
quiver is a little bit different of is
the game that we hung is out here in the
city
this movie for incoming something is
changing this caring but we're still
happy I have different things my quiver
a laptop cellphone I have schooling i
have training all those things are what
we have i think it's really important
that we help it quit once they're
walking behind us with those same things
so they can carry on that huh so they
can feed their little ones that can
house them self build lodges help others
I think that's an essential component
what we do it
I think it's as ancient as those big ice
balls it back so long it's ancient is
that fire the drama singing voices that
we speak with we're still saying the
same words we're still honoring each
other
we're doing a slightly different setting
lotta good thanks as well
I want to I want to stop talking it's on
invite Gabrielle up to say if you worked
Gabriella so special
to step aside and listen there's
something in mind my father talking at
first day starting point but i
understand it I can't learn a thing long
time I learn very little when I take the
time to stop and listen to my heart
others speak I can see it learn
certainly learn a lot I appreciate
I'm very excited for the evening we have
planned ahead tonight is all about
celebration it's all about celebrating
the excellence that we see in our very
strong very resilient indigenous
community and in particular the Indian
in the indigenous professional community
so in honor of National Aboriginal
History Month is slain I was mentioning
each year since the founding of a pact
just four years ago we've aimed to do an
event to honor the month and this year
we wanted to take one of our key beliefs
the key pillars of our organization
which is recognizing excellence and take
that to another level so for those of
you who are members of a pack and might
receive our newsletter every month you
would know that each month we recognize
an Aboriginal professional in the
community
now these people are students they're
professionals their leaders in all
industries and the ask them a series of
questions and why do we do this we do it
because you know in the Aboriginal
community I look around this room and
you know I know many of you people who
have gone through so much who have
fought so hard where leaders and their
positions and we want to celebrate you
we want to honor your journey and really
celebrate you know your strength and
resiliency and in doing that you know
provide role models for the next
generation of Aboriginal youth so for
the last three years on a monthly basis
we've profiled First Nations makes him
anyway professionals and students right
across Canada so what we wanted to do in
honor of National Aboriginal history
month this year is take this pillar at
this cornerstone of our organization and
take it to another level and so what we
decided to do was honored three
Aboriginal professionals we've honored
in the past and and you know who
continued that legacy of excellence
in their professional journeys as well
as their personal on cultural journeys
as well I'm also very excited that a
good friend mentor of mine Clint is
going to be speaking with us here I
think attended many events with you but
I don't know how the pleasure of hearing
you speak so I'm very excited to hear
you speak and on that I would also like
to thank TD for allowing us to have this
beautiful space this beautiful venue
with this gorgeous gorgeous view you
know when we were coming together and
thinking of who was a supporter that
would really you know take this idea run
with it is supported TD was the first
organization we brought it to and they
absolutely thought the concept and
really you know help support us all the
way so I really want to thank the
leadership at TD and for long as this
space
either here this evening so with that my
next task is to introduce Jennifer page
to say a few words on behalf of our
sponsor and so Jennifer is the vice
president translating balance sheet
management front office and investments
it's a very long time at TD thank you
very much Gabrielle and good evening it
gives me pleasure to be here tonight and
it is great honor I was asked to to come
in and introduce like I got the
opportunity to actually learn and put
more
organization and I'm very eager to speak
to more people to see me because I would
actually like to join us so member so I
think this has been really impressive
work to be done
so saving i'd like to welcome Clint
Davis Clint is his vice president of
Aboriginal banking here at TV he joined
TD back in 2012 where he he was brought
in to help throw the bank's efforts in
Aboriginal business Clint is an Anouk
from new Nazi of its Labrador and before
joining te he was the president and CEO
of canadian council for aboriginal
business and i have the honor and
privilege of working with clint here at
City and myself I am a mate see woman
from Manitoba born and raised in in
Winnipeg my family still is back there
are very active participants in the
meaty community and part of the medical
community society I have had the benefit
throughout my career of having
Aboriginal role
and leaders to guide me throughout my
path and I continue as I grow in my
journey every day to meet more and more
incredibly talented Aboriginal leaders
all that I i continue to learn and grow
and so Clint of course is among them and
thank you for coming this evening and I
huh
so perfect so thank you very much thank
you very much Gabriel that was very
squeezing it's a real honor to be
hosting this event it's a real honor to
be here and to get to meet all the
members of a packet is truly an
incredible organization is one that I
think's been long overdue and it's
wonderful to see that gabriella and and
all of your team the ones that were able
to kind of really create this into
eternal love and I'm glad that everyone
is joining the view albeit a stunted
view I guess but I danced around the
54th floor I think the largest building
at Goose Bay Labrador was probably two
floors I couldn't believe it when I was
actually on an elevator before it was
quite remarkable that the doors have
closed and open and you would actually
be in another part of the building the
whole topic is excellence in Aboriginal
leadership so I'm going to kind of break
this down a little bit because it's
something that I actually I'm very
excited but talking about something that
I studied when I was actually at the
Kennedy School of Government and it is
about this idea of leadership in 2001 I
actually worked with the Harvard project
on American Indian economic development
and we actually created and developed a
leadership program for in wheat leaders
from Canada so we actually had 25 litres
who came down to the candy school for
two days of leadership training and
specifically they went through this
particular course that I'm going to be
actually pulling a lot of the principles
of in terms of leadership and the
professor at the time asked the Inuit
leadership what would you see as some of
the key traits of leader and so people
were throwing that a vision resilience
strength someone even put that was
amazing because we had women there was
someone through a great man and so he's
writing all this stuff down I know
great man so he's writing all the stuff
down on this flip chart and then he
starts going no no no no no no no no no
and so needless to say the enemy leaders
are kind of Iceland who's this idiot in
fact some of the things that we actually
see when we talk about leadership and
frankly it's it's I think leadership is
kind of used very loosely today right
and I think we see sometimes some
examples of this right you got the one
person you get followers coming after
you it's interesting that that person
man or woman is bread no no that's all
of them but anyway they're all sort of
fun about a person out of that pre
example of leadership right so I great
Jennifer soul I like one of my team I'm
expecting my team to not only follow me
but they have to live hey as I point to
go ahead alright so that's so this
actually did a search last night I was
looking up pictures of leadership when I
was coming up with this kind of stuff
that's kind of interesting and of course
of course we can't go beyond leadership
to actually without looking at something
like this right the great warrior man or
woman not really sure very lonely up
there holding the sword it's windy I
don't get wind in my office but sure
that's that's what experience in fact
the english word leadership originates
from the ancient root leaf which meant
to go forth and die as in passing so
think about them like please exactly so
that's kind of the concept that people
actually have when they think of
leadership to go forth and die as
so needless to say my thinking around
leadership is a little bit different and
so how many of you have heard of dr. ron
hyphens not necessarily the soul warrior
leading on a sword or whatever but dr.
ron heifetz he's the founding director
of the center for public leadership he's
a physician by training but he keep all
that up because he actually wanted to
focus on leadership around adapt to
change and so he's a renowned expert in
this area of leadership and so he's
written a number of books on this not be
able to show you one specifically and
this is the one that actually was
written in the mid-90s and the premise
behind this book is that it's it's a
distinction between routine technical
problems which because which can be
solved through expertise or a quick
technical things so you actually have a
routine problem that can be solved by
someone with managerial experience or
managerial expertise or strategic
expertise or a lawyer or summin of that
nature and that's compared to adaptive
problems big problems which there's no
technical fix things like crime poverty
relationships with indigenous peoples
issues like that which really require
some fundamental changes in particular
with values so what he talks about in
his book which I tended to scoot to
subscribe to is that he looks at
leadership not as a role but as an act
right it's an activity you exercise
leadership
and so what you try to do is that you're
actually mobilizing others to face a
conflict in their values for which there
is really no technical fix or an easy
answer and what dr. heifetz actually
refers to he calls that adaptive work so
he normally refers to people as trying
to do the work and that's actually
really fundamental problems fundamental
issues for which they're questioning
their balances so this is supposed to be
activity I don't know why it looks like
activities me but they're all singing
and dancing and so so leadership in and
of itself is an activity so it's not
necessarily about a position of
authority and frightening and in fact
there's actually a huge difference
between authority and a leader there's a
lot of people who are in positions of
authority but they've never ever
exercised leadership in fact you can
have a lot of people who doesn't have
any it wouldn't have any authority
whatsoever yet they actually have the
capability to exercise leadership what
you see in some position and it does
drop me a bit bananas because you do see
it in the public sector the private
sector nonprofit sector everybody's
leaders they're not leaders their
managers there individuals with an
expertise of tricks of technical
you can you don't have to be a
particular individual in a sieve and a
significant role and I like that the
reason why I like that is because
anybody can do it so you don't have to
wait to be the vice president or you
don't want to have to wait to be the CFO
or the CEO you can be an individual that
can exercise leadership leadership can
come with a position of authority under
that guy is right so if you are in a
position of authority and you do have to
get your face with the position where
you have to exercise leadership
authority in and of itself can actually
be both a resource and a constraint so
what I mean by that is do you actually
have access to a bunch of tools that
would enable you to exercise this
leadership and again what I'm talking
about is really doing that adaptive work
really questioning the values and the
norms that exist in society so one of
the tools that a leader would actually
have is that they're able to determine
and basically start to they can have the
ability to regulate the strengths so
what you're trying to do needs to say
when you're actually having questions
about values more and more people don't
look at that in a very comfortable
statement right so what the leader can
actually do is sort of regulate that by
actually creating conversation and
creating this class of values creating
disqus equilibrium but not in a way that
overwhelms people it's actually giving
it can be done in a way that's tolerated
the other key thing and this is critical
because it's actually currency for those
exercising leadership
is getting attention so you actually
have your bully pulpit so if you're in a
position of authority you do have that
ability in order to bring attention to
issues and actually start to direct
people to start facing up to some of the
issues that that's existing in society
and so in the case of Barack Obama just
recently you've had issues around race
and a Barack Obama's using the n-word
and so he's being somewhat provocative
and actually trying to bring attention
to something which says exist in the
United States is the very existence of
the country so in other ways though even
though you have a position of authority
it can actually get very limiting
because when you're in that position
individuals when they're actually faced
with having to really think about their
values they want to do them people don't
normally want to say okay this is why I
stand for but now that's actually turn
on on its head instead what they want is
they want a position of authority to
protect them to be able to say
everything's going to be okay to be able
to say that they're going to dispel any
level of conflict and maintain a level
of equilibrium so as an example in the
mid-eighties so you can probably
devastate hello i am george bush the
first one talked about the war on drugs
and so what he wanted to do was actually
say okay we're going to announce a drug
czar and that drugs are is going to
basically regulate and attack those
individuals who are bringing drugs into
the country and so the United States as
population thoughtful this is fantastic
so we really don't have to do anything
you just turn to the government and the
government's going to take care of all
their problems there are the ones
they're going to find the bad guys smoke
them out
when in fact the real question is what
are we doing about it why are drugs
actually coming into the country water
communities and families and citizens
actually thinking about why our drugs
here who's using these drugs why is
there such a demand for these drugs
right nobody wants to actually deal with
something like that so a position of
authority can be very beneficial because
you can regulate that disable it really
conflict but at the same time you do
have a lot of people who would expect
you to make sure you protect them so it
is a bit of a challenge the other thing
is that you actually don't need a level
of formal Authority in order to exercise
leadership so I'm sure many of you in
this room know who these women are
Jessica Gordon Sylvia McAdam Sheila
playing Anita Wilson so those are the
women from Saskatchewan right who
created the aisle no more movement and
what actually started out as simply a
concern about an omnibus legislation
piece of legislation being bill c-45
which in turn raised very serious
concerns around the environment and the
impact of Land Management for reserves
actually it and this exercise or this
basic exchange of emails from these
women started to explode and its
extended well beyond the game borders
next when the United States as far away
as Ukraine and Australia and what was
fasting about this was
anything it's interesting because
there's a parallel to what these women
did and what Gandhi did in India they
took an issue which was very specific
and very very nicely dealing with decent
be bill c-45 but they turned it into
something about indigenous relationships
here in Canada right so there are some
great quotes if I was saying that I
don't know more is not just about
legislation it's about a call for
renewal of indigenous identity spent
alive ways the leaders and spokespersons
of the movement have no hesitation
linking the political to the personal as
the personal is very much a part of the
movement so it clearly led to larger
conversation for Canadians arguably I'd
say that with the release of the truth
reconciliation commission report that is
almost it's not necessary without a
formal Authority because they do have
formal Authority but all they're doing
they don't really have any authority to
change the values but they're bringing
attention to some of the challenge right
now and hopefully in order to
change values numbers five so what does
this actually mean particularly if
you're exercising leadership either with
authority without authority is that it's
pretty risky right so often times
because what you're doing is that
instead of providing answers because
you're not the one providing all the
answers despite the fact that people may
look to you to do that in fact what
you're trying to do is you're actually
just providing more questions really
trying to force people to really face
hard facts instead of protecting people
from change so think about just recently
right so some of the issues that are
facing today's society what are people's
views and their value systems were on
homosexuality what are their views and
their value systems are around greater
levels of authority for indigenous
communities what are their views around
the cost the cost of protecting the
environment these are all major issues
which I think ultimately you're seeing
some level of exercise of leadership now
the challenge in the risk around this is
that you're actually creating a lot of
disruption for people right and a lot of
uncomfortableness because what you're
doing is you're saying the unsayable and
discussing them discussable you're
asking people to effectively sustain a
loss so the loss could be real could be
tangible in terms of financial or it
could be a loss of what traditionally
they were very used to do so a part of
their own value system so in times
because individuals particularly when
you're with without a level of authority
you actually embody these issues right
so what happens is that these
individuals get attacked they get
dismissed silence and oftentimes simply
discarded and will I dr. heifetz likes
to call it is they have their
assassinating so you no longer become
effective so it's a fine balance to
actually create that disruption
without necessarily being character
attacked so you're no longer effective
so so at the end of the day what you're
trying to do is that you do want to
align this issue but you're trying to
avoid actually being a lightning rod so
fundamentally what you're trying to do
in this situation is to stay alone
playing this particularly for the Romans
of provocation so his recommendation was
to simply say when you're going through
this oftentimes what you're trying to do
with your bringing attention to the
issue but you're trying to do this in a
matter so people actually start on the
issue and start to have that
conversation and they start to kind of
continue that conversation and it
develops and the balls into something
else so he talks about using that level
of provocation and then actually going
up on the balcony or move yourself a
little bit and see what's actually
happening and the evolution that's
happening over time so this is a very
very difficult thing and when people
asking about leadership leadership is
again it's not a role it's not it's not
about making the big box or being able
to tell people what to do it's the
really tough difficult things it's the
really challenging things whereby you
want to have an impact on either the
workplace on your team or on society and
I think right now particular what's
happening around indigenous relations
this is a prime prime example of Canada
finally trying to think about what does
this mean in terms our own value system
for our personal people so in leadership
you have to embrace conflict I don't
know why its men vs women so weird
thing but it was late and I didn't know
where else to find a picture so anyway
leadership is really about embracing
conflict because it is the engine to
effect change and ultimately to create
to support adaptive work and innovation
it doesn't necessarily mean fighting in
some companies fixing here a TV but they
don't really want to use the word
conflict because conflict obviously is a
bit of a loaded term so instead what
they call it is that they're leveraging
disagreements but effect like what
you're trying to do is more constraining
leveraging disagreements it's almost a
bad ste couple but you're leveraging
disagreements so you're orchestrating
conflict is with conflict with disputes
with with with some level of
disagreement you do lead to that level
of change the other thing around
leadership as well and this is one thing
when I was going through this course it
was fascinating it was actually rather
humbling is to learn from failure right
so if we do want to have better
leadership a powerful source of learning
as our own failures sometimes the most
difficult thing about learning from
failure is actually noticing and
realizing that we actually failed in
some cases it could be something that
you didn't even see and you did fail at
the time so embrace I ready for his bill
embrace failure learn failure learn from
failure so ultimately see I told you
this is kind of do so many doesn't say
there's a few little bugs that have to
work on them but ultimately what does
this mean in terms of the context of
operational leadership and so one thing
that I did was I actually looked at a
little bit of
was done in a variety differences to
institutions and it's incredible what
the fam Center has done around
Aboriginal leadership and leadership
development as you can imagine and I'm
just paradigm starting to walk
paraphrase a little bit but ultimately
indigenous leadership wasn't necessarily
done in a way where people were always
one liked it right in some instances you
actually had historically individuals
that kind of rose to the occasion again
the day through what was referred to as
natural order and laws the people
fundamentally though from some of the
research that was done particularly the
Harvard project on American Indian
economic development when they looked at
a variety of different tribes and sort
of the historical value systems of these
tribes one of the common elements that
they saw in terms of the fundamental
effectiveness of alberto leadership was
culture and language and frankly that's
actually no different than what we have
today just recently had wob canoe who
spoke at a TD event and he talked about
where the young aboriginal population is
which effectively is very prudent to
this particular organization and you
have individuals as he described people
with technical expertise doing very well
in their jobs but also have been
maintaining this level of connection to
community to culture and in many
instances to language and so what I
think is about maintaining and
strengthening for yourself and your
children if you choose to have them that
will example poison strong vision so how
do those connections are absolutely key
so with all that I hope you kind of walk
away with a few messages other than you
the back of my jacket but specifically
leadership is more of an act it's not a
rule all of us in this room can actually
exercise leadership excellence is
something which we should strive for but
at the same time can't be afraid of
failure and it's from that failure is
when we will be when we learn and I
talked about it but in fact you can
embrace failure understand one failure
happens but also embrace it and learn
from the only thing about you know it
what is excellent and we'll talk in all
appear from Gabrielle later about just
incredible work of some of the members
but you know I always think you know as
humans where we're not perfect organisms
right we're all sort of flawed in some
way shape or form and so you know this
bumps and bruises along the way and and
we will fall down on many occasions and
that's fine I mean the biggest thing is
how to actually respond to failure and I
think that fundamentally will be able to
demonstrate where you're actually going
to go in life so at the end of the day
and my message would be described to be
your best strive to be excellent in
dollars remember who you are and where
you came from so hopefully you'll take
that and I hope that you
my perception of revision of time so
thank you very much go to the second
part of our agenda which is celebrating
excellence so I want to go back to
Gabrielle's introduction and talk a
little bit about
what we've been doing within our
organization the criteria of how we
chose our three winners tonight so role
models play a critical role in our
community and since a pact I was founded
recognizing excellence in the Aboriginal
community has been 11 of our pillars
that we continue to showcase strong
leaders across Canada every month for
recognizing excellence program so our
first Award winner tonight is ELISA leb
I'd be by partnership against cancer as
director strategy implementation for
First Nations Inuit m18 cancer control
she's absolutely passionate about change
making causes and elise's contributions
her leadership to various organizations
recently appointed to the board of
health for the city of toronto she is
also the co-chair of the aboriginal
nutrition network governing circle
director for the circle of philanthropy
and aboriginal peoples in Canada she's
also adviser to small fund change change
funds as well as trustee or II and any
ELISA possesses a Master of Public
Health
at University she graduated from a virus
in university school of nutrition
pursuing a vibrant career as a
registered dietitian she is a proud
member of the chippewas with name wash
in ontario and at least a resides in
toronto so again i would like to invite
lisa up to the stage to accept her award
so our second award for tonight goes to
terry swan who is currently the director
of the Canadian programs at Save the
Children Canada she's most proud that
she has been given the opportunity
toward towards reconciliation between
indigenous and non-indigenous people's
through developing a cultural responsive
relationship framework for the
organization the framework describes a
decolonizing approach to working in
meaningful relationships with indigenous
communities most importantly it supports
advancing the rights of all children and
addresses the gaps between indigenous
and non-indigenous children in the areas
of health education and child protection
Terry will also completes her m.ed this
year where she was able to enter the
program without any undergraduate degree
she believes the opportunity to learn
and critically reflect on her lifelong
learning journey was a life-changing and
profound and profound for her and she
hopes to continue to inspire others to
receive higher education regardless a
post-secondary education because she was
able to do it in addition to her work
and pursuing her studies Terry still
makes time to volunteer and currently
teaches cultural safety workshops at
victim services training sessions for
volunteers in southern Ontario so I'd
like to welcome Terry up to the stage
and last but certainly not least I would
like to invite our third winner up to
the stage mark LaBelle and mark is from
rural northern auditor Ontario where he
and his family are proud to be
and to continue to celebrate their
culture mark completed his post
secondary education at Laurentian
University where he was enrolled in
biomedical medical biology in the
beginning he was in pursuit of pure
knowledge where he was solely focused on
the academic aspects of University a
laurentian university markets board
Aboriginal culture he did this through
elders visiting elders frequently hal
tradition where they held traditional
teachings and where they were always
available for him for informal
discussions this allowed him to
sympathised his core values based on
both Western and Aboriginal ideals
giving him the unique multi-perspective
approach that in parts of deep
understanding into the trans ER series
of being meaty the union of the two
distinct cultures as depicted in the
mating flag this in turn put him in a
position to advocate for aboriginals in
respectful and insightful way which he
will forever be present in his career as
a physician because his core values are
incorporated in Aboriginal values
he's able to give it alternate views and
to simulate discussions in his current
pursuit of medicine at the University of
Toronto again I'd like to welcome mark
up as he's already here but so we have
one last award to present tonight and I
know I'm jumping the gun on one
announcement by Gabrielle it actually
has been accepted to the Stanford
Graduate School business because without
him she went on program I rather reflect
on the two other criteria that we use
the ability to role model and commitment
to community I think commitment to
community stands for itself if without
her none of us would be here in this
room today you might be wondering okay
if Gabriel is poised to california in
two months what's happening with the
organization so i would like to make a
very excited and formal announcement so
i am actually stepping aside as
president of the aboriginal professional
association of canada but in my place
i'm very excited to announce that we
have two incoming co-presidents two of
whom you've actually heard from this
evening so Krystal and Laura
you